---
layout: post
title: "UIKonf 2015 Recap"
date: 2015-05-23
---

So on the first day of UIKonf [that talk by Ash Furrow](http://ashfurrow.com/blog/from-proposal-to-applause-how-i-public-speaking/) happened, where he talked about the benefits of sharing and blogging. It was pretty much universally liked and i too was inspired to finally get better at social. Since getting started is always the hardest part, i’m gonna take Ash’s advice and just write about the conference.

*Disclaimer*: UIKonf was the first conference i actually attended live, not watched online afterwards, therefore i don’t have any reference for a fair comparison.

The overall quality of the talks was pretty great. The speakers were relaxed but entertaining, the topics were interesting. But more importantly, they managed to form a bigger picture and were wisely arranged:

Each day started and ended with less technical talks, so people weren’t overstrained in the morning / after lots of sessions. Monday was framed by motivational speeches by Mike Lee, who illustrated our responsibility when helping shape the future through our work, J.P. Simard, advocating taking tooling problems into our own hands instead of accepting to be depended on Apple, and Ash Furrow, convincing almost everyone of the importance of sharing knowledge and experiences. Tuesday was about broadening horizons with Halle Winkler’s look into the world of managing your own business and Maxim Cramer giving a Design 101 and pleading for a better mutual understanding between developers and designers.

The more code-centric talks featured functional programming as a recurring theme. Natasha Murashev started with a basic introduction into some of the new features of Swift, before others dived deeper into more specific things that can be achieved with these features. Multiple speakers attempted to explain monads, and while not everyone might have been able to follow, everyone i talked to wanted to learn more about them by implementing one themselves (and thus [fuckingmonads.com](http://fuckingmonads.com/) was born). Finally Graham Lee reminded us that no new programming language is magically gonna make us better programmers, that it’s not about the tools but how they are used. In his brilliant talk he took the audience back to 1995, when object oriented programming was as an exciting “new” paradigm as functional programming is today.

Also worth noting is [the great coffee](http://www.companioncoffee.com/) that was served during the breaks. I drank so much, i was literally bellyaching after the conference - but it was so worth it.
